CAS VS OpenId-OAuth

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2033026/sso-with-cas-or-oauth/3181557#3181557

OpenID is not a 'successor' or 'substitute' for CAS, they're different, in intent and in implementation.


CAS centralizes authentication. 
Use it if you want all your (probably internal) applications to ask users to login to a single server 
(all applications are configured to point to a single CAS server).

OpenID decentralizes authentication. 
Use it if you want your application to accept users login to whatever authentication service they want 
(the user provides the OpenID server address - in fact, the 'username' is the server's URL).

None of the above handle authorization (without extensions and/or customization).

OAuth handles authorization, 
but it is not a substitute for the traditional 'USER_ROLES table' (user access). 
It handles authorization for third-parties.

For example, you want your application to integrate with Twitter: 
a user could allow it to tweet automatically when they update their data or post new content. 
You want to access some third-party service or resource on behalf of a user, without getting his password 
(which is obviously unsecure for the user). The application asks Twitter for access, the user authorizes it (through Twitter), 
and then the app may have access.

So, OAuth is not about Single Sign-On (nor a substitute for the CAS protocol). 
It is not about you controlling what the user can access. 
It is about letting the user to control how their resources may be accessed by third-parties. 
Two very different use-cases.

To the context you described, CAS is probably the right choice.

[updated]
That said, you can implement SSO with OAuth, 
if you consider the identity of the user as a secured resource. 
This is what 'Sign up with GitHub' and the likes do, basically. 
Probably not the original intent of the protocol, but it can be done. 
If you control the OAuth server, and restrict the apps to only authenticate with it, that's SSO.

No standard way to force logout, though (CAS has this feature).
